The idea that planting trees could have a social or political significance appears to have been invented by the English, though it has since spread widely. According to Keith Thomas's history Man and the Natural World, seventeenth- and eighteenth-century aristocrats began planting hardwood trees, usually in lines, to declare the extent of their property and the permanence of their claim to it. What can be more pleasant," the editor of a magazine for gentlemen asked his readers, "than to have the bounds and limits of your own property preserved and continued from age to age by the testimony of such living and growing witnesses?". Planting trees had the additional advantage of being regarded as a patriotic act, for the Crown had declared a severe shortage of the hardwood on which the Royal Navy depended. ─&gt; For English aristocrats, planting trees served as statement to mark the lasting ownership of their land, and it was also considered to be an exhibition of their loyalty to the nation.

Paralysis by analysis is a state of overthinking and analyzing a particular problem, but you still end up not making a decision. One famous ancient fable of the fox and the cat explains this situation of paralysis by analysis in the simplest way. In the story, the fox and the cat discuss how many ways they have to escape their hunters. Cat quickly climbs a tree. Fox, on the other hand, begins to analyze all the ways to escape that he knows. But unable to decide which one would be the best, he fails to act and gets caught by the dogs. This story perfectly illustrates the analysis paralysis phenomenon: the inability to act or decide due to overthinking about available alternatives. People experience that although they start with a good intention to find a solution to a problem, they often analyze indefinitely about various factors that might lead to wrong decisions. They don't feel satisfied with the available information and think they still need more data to perfect their decision. Most often this situation of paralysis by analysis arises when somebody is afraid of making an erroneous decision that can lead to potential catastrophic consequences: It might impact their careers or their organizations' productivity. So that's why people are generally overcautious in making decisions that involve huge stakes.