“Going green” seems to be all the rage these days. Stores and companies use phrases like this to promote their businesses as eco-friendly. It makes sense to try to live in a way that does not harm the environment, but is it easy to go green? In your home, for example, do you always unplug your TV when you aren't watching it? Do stores in your neighborhood always keep their doors shut when the heaters or air conditioners are on? Probably not. Some innovators have taken on the challenge of “going green,” and have come up with some brilliant ideas to make “going green” easier and simpler.

Reuse: Oldies but goodies!
Everyone has things that are no longer of any use, and chances are those things will eventually get thrown away. However, some of the things that get thrown out are still useful to other people. Goedzak is a Dutch way of allowing people to get second-hand things that might otherwise be thrown away. It is a special garbage bag that can be filled with used, but still usable items. Placing the bag outside on the pavement makes whatever is in it available to anyone in the community. Goedzak's bright color attracts attention while the transparent side of the bag reveals its contents. People can help themselves to anything they like. What an idea! These transparent garbage containers have helped many Dutch people go greener by reducing the amount of trash going to landfills.

Share: Talk to the community
According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, a third of global food production goes into trash bins annually. In Germany alone, around eleven million tons of food is wasted every year. Having been founded to tackle this problem on a local scale, the online platform, “foodsharing.de” allows extra food in your fridge or cupboard to be distributed to neighbors. The basic concept is simple: people sharing food. The only rule is not to pass anything on to others that you wouldn't eat yourself. This project may change the way people think about food: if food is not shared, it is wasted.

Waste Not: Drink and eat it!
Using disposable cups may be convenient, but it is not necessarily eco-friendly. They are a massive source of waste. Every year, people in the U.S. use over 100 billion disposable cups, and Koreans dispose of over 15 billion cups each year. That's what drove a few novel designers to come up with edible coffee cups. A cookie forms the main structure, with a white chocolate layer on the inside and a thin layer of sugar paper on the outside. This structure allows you to drink coffee without finding yourself holding a soaked mess. You can think of it as a treat for coffee! You may have to consume extra sugar, but it will definitely create less waste.